Hey Michael, hey everyone in YouTube land.
Hello, hello.
Welcome to another episode.
It's pretty exciting.
We got some wonderful topics today, so let's just jump in.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes,
where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 337, recorded May 23rd, 2023.
And I am Brian Okken.
And I'm Michael Kennedy.
I want to thank everybody that's watching,
but anybody that's listening, I encourage you to at least once in a while
drop by YouTube and see the upcoming list of events
at pythonbytes.fm/live to be part of the audience.
It's usually fun. It's usually Tuesdays at 11 Pacific time.
Occasionally we switch.
If you'd like to connect with us, we're all on Fosstodon,
or at least the three of us, Michael and I on the show.
It's mkennedy@fostedon,
and @brianokken, and @pythonbytes.
And with that, let's jump into our first topic.
- Let's jump into it.
It's not gonna be a rough one, or is it?
So the first topic is Ruff,
which is obviously Charlie Marsh's project.
It's very successful.
People know that.
It's not exactly rough.
It's a way to use rough.
And this one comes to us from John Hagan.
And John runs this project called Python Blueprint.
So he's been playing around a lot
with that project and PyCharm and Rough
and realize that now there's a plugin
for all the JetBrains IDEs, most notably PyCharm,
called just Ruff.
And the idea is that, you know,
PyCharm has all these little squigglies and warnings
and maybe even more importantly, the auto corrections.
So it'll do things like,
if you wanted to replace double quotes or single quotes,
you can just hit Alt + Enter, and it'll suggest,
"Hey, why don't we just do that for you?"
Things like that.
So this integrates all the rough functionality
into that same basic UI system.
You get little warnings or errors on the screen
based on rough output, so it has inspection and highlighting.
It can set it up so it runs rough on your code
when you run reformat code or just hit the hotkey,
Command + Alt + L, Control + Alt + L.
It has the quick fixes that I was just talking about,
and it will actually run, you can run rough --fix as an action,
and you can even run that when a file is saved,
just automatically, like, "Hey, if there's stuff wrong,
just fix it, rough, just do that for me."
You can configure which version of rough is running,
so basically, the plugin lets you specify,
"Do you use a global one, maybe managed by pipx?
Do you use a local one in a virtual environment?"
I sort of feel like isolating that to a per project basis
is the right thing.
So that's what I'm doing, playing with this.
And yeah, you can run it as a new process.
You can specify a config option, like a set YAML.
I'm not sure what the format that is,
but whatever the rough config file format is
so that you can say, you know what?
I don't really care about the line length for this thing.
So just ignore that and don't ever run that and so on.
So yeah, you can even run it out of a WSL Windows subsystem
for Linux.
And there's some nice screenshots
as all UI things should have in there.
You can even see some of the settings
if you wanna try it out.
So it has 4.8 out of five ratings and looks pretty new,
but yeah, anyway, I think it looks like a good option.
So people can check that out.
Also, yeah, I'm really excited about it.
I've installed it, I'm gonna give it a try.
You can go check out the-- it's open source, obviously,
so you can go check out basically the repo for the plugin.
And John sent over to us, and I'm linking to this thing
where it says you can add additional PyCharm-specific instructions
for both black and rough.
So he's got this section that shows you basically how to integrate
both Black and Rough at the same time
as automatic code formatters in PyCharm
using the FileWatchers plugin.
So just follow along with the steps there.
It even has Nox support, but yeah, cool.
So if that sounds interesting to you,
if you wanna have kind of auto-Rough
just built into PyCharm and you use PyCharm,
then check this out, it looks cool.
Thanks, John.
- Yeah, that's nice.
- Yeah.
- And Rough, of course, is written in Rust.
and I'd like to talk a little bit more about Rust.
So there was an article I ran across called,
it's from Koblo's blog, don't know if that's a first name
or last name, but thanks Koblo's,
writing Python like it's Rust.
And what I, I haven't written Rust yet, but a little bit.
Anyway, the thing I liked about this article
is really basically he's going from Rust back to Python
programming in both.
And one of the things he misses is some of the safety
that types give you.
So he's discovered that he's changing
or they're changing how they're using types within Python.
And I kind of liked some of the suggestions.
I think these are some of the things
I didn't even think of before.
The obvious one of course is for function signatures.
So we really want to, if it's not obvious,
like there's an example with a find item
with records in check, but what is that?
What are those types of those things?
So it's really helpful to your call,
the people using your API to specify
what the parameters look like
or what you expect them to look like.
And there's so many options within Python now.
And also that to, you know, return value.
And here is an example, it's an optional item.
So I actually hadn't thought about that
of like using optional as a return type.
That's pretty cool.
Which means you can either,
and you could probably do like item or none
to say it can return none or something.
That's a, it is good to, especially if it's something,
if it's possible to return none,
good to have that in the types. So that's the low-hanging fruit that I think a lot of people
have gotten there yet already. The other thing that I found recently is I've got some types that
are like tuples or dictionaries or specifically a specific kind of dictionary like a string to any
or even I use named tuples a lot which are a little bit better than just your normal types.
But his recommendation is to go ahead and use data classes
because they're more descriptive.
Even if it's similar information,
you can write up a little data class.
And then like in the example,
instead of saying that you're returning a dictionary,
go ahead and return like a person item, specific types.
And I'm kind of used to that from C++
of like writing little types
because they're more descriptive
and they're easier to read sometimes.
So bringing this into Python is kind of a cool idea.
The other, one of the things I thought was really awesome
is this idea, there's an example using,
where he's using like these packet types.
And since I work with communications a lot,
this really hit home of, you have, you can,
a packet might be either a header or payload or a trailer.
This is a Rust example,
But you can do the same sort of thing within Python to say,
I can have different data types using data classes
to specify what kind of information
you're going to get from these.
And then you can create a union type
and have that be a different name,
but related to everything.
And I kind of love this idea of using a union type instead
of using the ORs.
I mean, using OR for types is good too,
but combining that into a union type is pretty slick.
- Yeah, yeah, that is pretty interesting.
I like that.
So is that if you're gonna receive, say,
a packet off a network and it had first the header bit
and then the payload and then the trailer
or something like that?
- Yeah, or like a function that takes,
that can count the bits in there or something like that.
And it can either be a header or a payload or a trailer.
You could do something different with those
and having a union type is pretty cool.
Now, within it, and here's an example
of how do you deal with that?
You'd still with inside,
you'd have to either do pattern matching or if clauses.
I've been using a lot more pattern matching lately
to be able to just, this is great for you.
You take the packet type,
but then you can match it against
either a header or payload or trailer.
this is a really clean way to have union types
and then unpack them with the pattern matching.
It's a pretty cool way to deal with that.
So--
- Yeah, that is actually pretty clean.
That's one of the better examples of pattern matching
that I've seen lately.
- And this is just like a third of the article,
but the rest of it does talk about different ways to,
basically, we have a lot of these tools within Python now
to make it more to utilize data types
that we're used to in other languages.
And you could kind of write some really clean looking code
and easier to read.
So it's nice.
- Yeah, very nice.
I like it.
So Kim out there has a question in the audience.
Ryan, is there possibly some overlap with writing Python
after writing a bunch of C as you do,
as in same way Rust leads to some good ideas in Python?
- Yeah, well, I mean, this person's writing it
from the experience of Rust, but I'm looking at it going,
this is a lot of the C++ stuff that I use.
So it is, yeah, I'm looking at it.
We're actually, my team is having a lot more fun
with Python with the pattern matching statement
because I know it can do a lot more stuff,
but it really does, even if you're just using it
to get away from a long list of if clauses
and make it more like a switch statement.
It is so much nicer.
It's one of the more easy bits.
- So that's a good example.
Yeah, Marco out there says,
"It's been too a lot of rust, missing match."
As well.
All right, shall we move on?
- Sure.
- All right.
Well, go ahead with your first,
I know you had an announcement as well.
You wanted to give out.
- No, I was just wondering, do we wanna,
today's episode is not brought to you
by an external sponsor, but it's brought to you by us.
- It is brought to you by us.
- And I'd like to hear some of the news from Michael.
- Well, the big news for me,
which I have sort of put in as an extra now and then
is the mobile apps.
So people go out there, download the mobile apps,
talkpython.fm/apps, and in there,
if you create an account or log in with your account,
At a minimum, you'll find like six different courses
that are free, just tap on them
and you can take those courses right away
within the mobile apps.
If you get this super, super quickly,
if you're one of the very, very prompt listeners,
there's a chance that our Git course actually is free
as well as part of a celebration of the mobile app launch,
but that lasts for about eight hours
from the time of recording,
which will be a few less hours
from the time I actually released this
to the general public, not in the live stream.
So you'll have to act fast on that one,
but do check out the mobile apps
if you're interested in Python courses.
They're a great way to take it.
They have some free ones, and they also are the best way
to take ones that you paid for as well.
So four months of work, finally,
really, really nice apps that we got out there.
- I'm listening to a couple,
watching and listening to a couple of courses right now.
not right now, but in some of my free time.
I love the mobile app, it's working great.
- Awesome, thanks.
And you also have a thing to shout out as well, right?
- Yeah, I wanted to let people know I wrote a book.
Now, you all know that.
But the exciting bit, I just got this email this morning.
So my book, "Python Testing with pytest, Second Edition."
I've had a lot of great feedback of saying,
people saying they read the first one and it was good,
but the second one really nailed,
they really got some of the concepts in.
So I'm glad that I wrote the second.
So the news, I just got this morning,
an email from Pragmatic saying
that there is a sale right now.
So there's a whole bunch of other books,
but Python Testing with pytest is one of them.
And if you use the coupon code SPRING2023,
and you can save 50% off of the ebook.
And that's up that expires June 1st.
So don't delay spring, 2023.
So awesome.
Let's bring you to some testing.
Um, well that's us.
Uh, how about a new topic?
Yeah.
Thank you everyone for supporting the show by supporting our work.
Let's talk about PIP.
So this is about a month old.
I've been looking to grab a slot to talk about it, but there's been
other sort of higher important stuff, but I do want to point this out.
So Zertex over on Reddit,
who if you follow over to the GitHub,
and then from GitHub, I think to Twitter,
maybe named Damian, not entirely clear,
so I want to give credit, but it's not easy to do,
says that pip 23, or points out that pip 23.1
was released with massive improvements to backtracking.
And backtracking is an algorithm
that is part of the requirements resolver.
So if you say, you know, pip install requests, flask,
and, you know, something else,
pip has to say, okay, well, we know what those are,
but both requests and flask may depend on some library.
I don't think that's true,
but I don't think there's an intersection there,
but you know, follow along.
If they did, then it's got to figure out,
well, okay, flask requires this range of versions
and request requires that range.
So let me find a version that will satisfy both of those requirements, right?
And there might be a transitive dependency upon that, right?
Like that shared, potentially shared library itself has another thing that it depends on.
So the article or not article, Reddit post says, you know, for example, let's say
you require package A and B, the latest versions of A and B are downloaded,
pip checks their requirements, and it finds that A depends on C version 2,
but B depends on C version 1.
And so it's got to figure out, well, can I go back
and get an older version of A
that would allow, say, C equals 1 to work?
So prior to pip 20.3, the default process would allow PIP
to install conflicting requirements with a warning saying that
this may or may not go well, we couldn't find one
that was a good fit.
that's no longer an option.
I have very mixed feelings about that.
I love that it tries to be more strict and correct,
but at the same time,
the alternative or the trade-off is
we guarantee correctness 100% of the time
in terms of a version match
for all the transitive dependencies
across all the different things.
And instead of saying,
we'll install something that doesn't work
or may not work
because there might be some functionality
that you may or may not interact with
that is incompatible version-wise.
We're just gonna say, "Your application cannot run.
"It's impossible for your app
"to use these dependencies and run."
Personally, I would prefer to say,
"Huge warning, this is not a great idea,
"but at least you can take a shot at it
"rather than it's impossible for you
"to run this application."
But that's the trade-off pip made,
and because of that, it has to be even better
that tracking down these version matches as best it can,
because the alternative is your application cannot be
installed and run.
So there's a lot of interesting history here,
but it talks about some of the algorithms that have been used
and points out that pip now separates out
the resolution logic into a library called resolvelib.
And it was discovered that there was an error, a logical error,
that both for performance and for correctness as well.
Better backtracking technique called backjumping
and an actual error that were fixed and implemented
in Resolve lib and now come out in 23.1.
So if you're using pip and if you're listening to us,
there's a real good chance that you are.
You wanna upgrade your pip to 23.1 or higher.
Whenever I install requirements,
I just have like a multi-step macro or alias.
The first thing it does is say,
pip install --upgrade pip.
Now go try to do the other stuff.
You know, it's like a concept for me,
but I know not everyone does that.
So when you see that little warning that says,
hey, warning, your pip is out of date.
If it's less than 23.1, you probably wanna take,
I don't know, take the advice and update it this time.
Yeah, just this morning I got a message.
Sorry, we cannot install your website because Sentry requires this version of Euro Lib 3
and request requires a different version of Euro Lib 3.
So you can't run your app.
Goodbye.
It's like, come on.
I'm sure that it's not actually using the conflicting.
One thing that this does point out here is traditionally people haven't had to worry
about this.
And so they'll, you'll see things like one of the dependencies will say it has to be
exactly like 1.2.3 when really what it means is it's gotta be later than 1.2, you know,
and they've just pinned it overly tight and you end up with this crash where you know
for sure that it wouldn't actually be a problem in your situation.
like, how do you know?
Well, because before pip 20.1, it was running,
those kind of things.
And so there is this little bit of,
I know it's great that it's trying
to be more accurate and precise, but sometimes I'd
rather have at least an option than none.
And so there's a whole interesting discussion
down here.
People can check it out in the comments.
It devolves into a debate about Python 2 to 3
for a little while, which is weird.
And then just skip that.
That's not productive reading.
but there's some interesting conversations going on there.
And also before we move on really quick, Brian,
there is, I think it's Damian, as I said,
points out that there is a PEP 658,
which is accepted for, what version of Python is this?
I don't know, 2021, so a couple versions ago,
that allows the metadata.
It used to be that pip would actually have to download
and install a package just to see
what the dependencies were.
And now that's separated out the metadata.
So you can get a very simple, small download
without trying to do stuff to it to go,
what does this actually need?
This version needs what?
All right, so there's are some improvements
that are being brought into here, but still,
there we have it.
- Yeah, a couple of comments,
which I kind of agree with, it'd be from Grant.
be nice if there was a warn unresolvable or something
to keep the old behavior.
I agree with Grant on that, yeah.
So I guess this is a reminder to library authors
as well that your dependencies, you
might know that you have a lower limit on some dependency
that you need version like 1.2 of this library or above.
Think about it.
I prefer to have libraries pin their dependencies,
the transitive dependencies in a lower bound
and not upper bound version,
because, I mean, you don't know what the upper bound is,
unless you do, unless there really is,
there was a breaking change
and you really know that there's a break.
- Right, the thing for me more is about,
which I agree with you, Brian, and the comments,
but it's about like, there might be an absolute 100% conflict.
Like, if this library tries to do, so for example,
let's say like request tries to use Kerberos authentication
instead of basic authentication.
And in that scenario, this other library does something crazy,
it crashes, unless it's high enough.
If I'm never using that authentication mechanism,
I'm never gonna, so like, yes, it is actually a breaking change,
but it's not a breaking change for me.
- Oh yeah.
- In my use case of the combination of those two things.
Right?
Like that's kind of where I've been thinking about this.
- Oh yeah. Interesting.
Yeah.
Cause there's a lot of like a lot of Swiss Army knife
libraries out there and you're not using all of them.
- It's very unlikely you're hitting a hundred percent
surface area of a thing in this dependencies.
Right? Exactly.
- Yeah. Interesting.
- Yep. Yeah.
Well, anyway, this is an improvement.
I feel like we're kind of like debating the 20.3 debate
This is an improvement on the stuff that has already been decided to be done.
So pip 23.1 is a good way to go.
Yeah, it's good.
Last item was a kind of a cool tool called Markdown Code Runner.
So this did remind me of a tool that I've known before.
So Markdown Code Runner is a package that automatically executes code blocks
within a Markdown file.
It's a, you can include hidden code blocks.
So you can have, the code blocks can be in comments.
And so you can't see the Markdown file, it just runs it.
So it runs the snippet,
and then you can have the output show up somewhere.
So this, in the example, let's run to an example.
You've got a little, a code block that says Python,
but instead of just Python, you say,
you know, you got your back ticks,
and then you say, "python markdown-code-runner,"
and then it runs the code in the code block.
And then it pops it out, you've got another couple comments
for output start and output end,
and it'll throw the output in there.
The neat thing is it's not just for Python,
it's for Bash also, so you can run some Bash scripts.
Like if you want to show a--
I was thinking if you wanted to show
what the directory looked like with the tree command,
you can go ahead and run tree
within a Markdown file and run it or other stuff.
Has several examples that they think would be neat.
Things like, I don't know,
like diagrams or tables or various things
that you might wanna output with Python visualizations.
You can use that.
- Yeah, that's really cool.
It did kind of remind me of cog,
but the syntax is a little different.
So cog from Ned Batchelder is a similar sort of thing.
You throw some code in place with some special tags.
He uses like a three bracket tags
instead of an actual code block.
So the thing I kind of like about this is a lot of times
I actually do want to show the code block.
So you can go ahead and show the code block
and then run it.
So that's neat.
So it's fun.
I tried it a little bit.
There's an example of using Rust.
So you can have actually running Rust also.
I couldn't get the Rust example to work,
but I got the Markdown or the Python
and the Bash examples to work.
So actually pretty cool.
Within the documentation,
it also talks about running this as a GitLab
or yeah, github CI snippet.
So, and that'd be a great place to do it
is to just rerun your,
rerun like reproduce the code output
from your readme on the new code.
So kind of a cool idea.
- Yeah, my first thought was,
oh, I have a code example and it says the output is this,
like rather than trying to maintain those,
just let it put the output there.
But it's also could be useful for just,
I have a little Python bit of code
that generates some other output that is useful, right?
Here's the go through and generate a little,
all the topics that it's on the sub directory
or something like that, right?
Yeah, like kind of just a markdown,
like a macro within a markdown.
- Generated table of contents or something.
- Yeah, exactly.
Something like that.
- Cool. - Cool.
That's all of it, right?
That's all the main topics?
- That is our main topics, yes.
- All right, I have a few extras to throw out here.
Let's jump over there real quick.
So same person who pointed out the rough plugin,
John Hagen also pointed out,
I had talked previously about
how I wish pip would update itself
when I create a virtual environment by default.
So if I say Python 3-M, VNV, VNV,
the very next thing after activating it is
your pip is out of date.
Like, ah, geez, okay.
So hence that's partly why my first thing to do
is always upgrade it is just to not see the warning
more than anything, honestly.
But pointed out that since Python 3.9,
there's an additional option you can pass
to the virtual environment creation story.
So instead of just -m vnvn director,
you can also patch --upgrade depends,
which will automatically do that upgrade
of pip and dependencies as well.
PIP set of tools to the latest version
as part of creating the virtual environment.
- Sweet.
- Yeah, so nothing major, but quite nice, right?
- Yeah, I mean, I usually have that as a second step
within my little macro.
- So do I.
So do I.
And I was looking to replace that and I'm like,
you know what?
- Not quite, because I also want to install things
like pip-tools and a couple other things
that this doesn't include.
So I'm like, ah, I still would have to write that line.
So I'll just leave it.
But anyway, still, it's really nice
to have a --upgrade depths.
If you want it to have a shiny new virtual environment
all the time.
- Yeah, and one of the things I really love
that came in like a few versions ago
is the, if you do the --prompt and give it a dot,
- Yes.
- It uses the directory name.
- Yeah, that's really excellent.
It names the virtual environment
containing directory names.
So it has like, the name of the virtual environment
is the name of your project often, which is great.
- Yeah.
- Yep.
All right, more things, more extras.
One is PyCon South Africa.
PyCon ZA will be held in Durban.
And the most important part here is
that the call for proposals is out.
And when is the timeframe?
Kim will have to let us know.
I know he's out in the audience, but yeah.
Oh, here we go.
Talks need to be submitted by August 18th, 2023.
And it's pretty good.
I think it's both virtual and in-person.
So some good options for people to attend
and down in October.
And it's pretty convenient for Africa, Europe, much of Asia,
although less so for, you know, you and me, Brian.
- That's all right.
- Yeah, cool.
So people, if they want to talk at PyCon South Africa,
be sure to submit that talk.
And Kim says that's a soft deadline, but sooner is better.
- Okay.
- Generally true.
- I got a friend that's in the cybersecurity area
and he's up all night anyway.
So maybe- - Yeah, there you go.
Yeah, you could definitely do it
You just live with auto off hours.
- Yeah.
- Real quick follow up from something before Brian,
and then we'll get to a joke.
I had put out a call to everyone and say,
help me find some off-road trails
for this adventure bike thing that I got into.
I didn't really get any feedback.
So I'm gonna instead pay it forward to other people out there
who might be listening to my ride.
So some really cool apps on X off-road,
you can go through and find,
you just click a spot on the map and it'll show you like,
here's all the public legal trails for you to go tear around
And they're even rated like five out of 10 or seven out of 10 with pictures and distance and challenges
So you can decide up front whether or not you you want to go down that path, I suppose
there's also
Gia G AI a just a similar thing and then backcountry discovery roads
which allow you to find like how do I traverse my state at least in the US or
similar things and
in Europe with the tet
How do you say traverse all of Oregon almost 100% off road
through the forest and the mountains and the deserts.
And so there's this app that has all these like GPS trails.
So anyway, I found some cool trails way up in the mountains
using this app and can recommend it to people.
- Neat, cool.
- Yeah, cool.
All right, a joke.
You got a joke for us.
- Yeah, I can't remember where I found this,
but there's a website called userinyourface.com.
So instead of user interface, user in your YER face.com.
So you just have to fill it out.
So.
- Like an anti-pattern, a whole combination
of anti-patterns into one UI.
- Okay, so just start off the, right off the bat.
So for people listening is, I'm sorry,
you're gonna have to watch this on the video or something,
but- - Or visit the link.
- Or go visit the link.
It says, "Hi, and welcome to User Interface,
a challenge exploration of user interactions
and design patterns.
To play the game, simply fill in the form
as fast and accurate as possible."
With a button that says, "No," big green button.
So it says, "Please click,
underline, scroll, underline, click here
to go to the next page," and the next page is highlighted.
And the trick is, the only thing that you can click on
is the here button.
It's not a button, it's just, that's it.
Okay, and then it, okay.
The site uses cookies, is that a problem for you?
Yes.
And the yes doesn't do anything.
Okay, no, not really.
And it goes away.
Can we help?
There's a help field that with no enter,
just send the bottom. - One of those dreadful
chat messages that pops up.
- Yeah, it's great.
- Yeah, choose your password, you click on it
and the highlighted choose your,
or the preview text is already there.
So if you add your password to it,
it doesn't delete the old one.
You gotta like fill that out.
Oh, you can't tab through anything.
So you have to click, oh, the email's bad too.
- Yeah, instead of a placeholder,
it's just gray, actual gray text.
- Yeah, but you also can't delete it.
Foo, domain, foo.
Oh, this one you have to delete also.
And, oh, there's a, hurry up, time is ticking.
A pop-up, one minute before.
Can I hit the, oh, the X isn't an X,
it's a maximize button.
- The copyrights are closed.
- Lock, unlock, this doesn't do anything.
Oh, the close is the copyright, right?
that isn't obvious.
Yeah, okay.
I do not accept these terms.
Okay, cancel.
Oh, I'm not, no, I meant, okay.
You sure you wanna cancel?
- You gotta cancel. - Cancel, cancel.
Next.
Oh, it says already selected, I do not accept.
So you have to uncheck it
to accept the terms and conditions.
What are the terms?
Yeah, okay.
- Good luck getting out of that dialogue.
You got to scroll down to accept them now to get out of it.
Okay. Well, we're stuck now. cause you can't even,
this is terrible. Anyway, I did get through it.
The fastest time I have so far is like five minutes.
People are going to speed run the, in your face interface.
Yeah. I'd love to see a speed run to see how fast somebody can really get through
in like a couple minutes, please do a video.
I wanna see that.
- Jeff out in the audience says,
I worked for the company that made that site.
- Yeah, so yeah, the company looks like Veerheart.
So nice.
- Yeah.
- All right, well, that's enough frustration for one day.
- Indeed.
Thanks again for joining us and doing another Python Bytes.
Thank you everybody for watching and listening
and supporting us through the courses
and books and everything.
So, and Patreon supporters, we still have Patreon supporters.
Thank you, Patreon supporters.
- Absolutely.
- And thanks Michael.
- Thanks Brian.
Thanks everyone.
Bye.